Example - Centralized Telescope with BLS Signatures (#114)
cardano-scaling/alba: examples/README.md

# Centralized Telescope with BLS Signatures

## Flow of the example
- Create a list of `Signer`s. This list contains candidate signers.
- Start a new `Registration`.
- Register candidate signers.
- Close the registration.
- Create a list of `RegisteredSigner`s.
- Create a list of `IndividualSignature`s.
- Generate `AlbaThresholdSignature` based on collected signatures.
- Verify the alba threshold signature.

## Code structure
### Signer
- There are two types of signers:
  - `Signer`: 
    - Candidate signer, 
    - including only the signing key and its verification key.
    - Initialization of a new signer is done by `init` function.
    - New registered signer can be created based on this signer with closed registration by `new_signer` function.

>   - `RegisteredSigner`:

Reviewer: Or using an option*

>   - `RegisteredSigner`:

Author: My idea was to provide a feature that allows a signer (`Signer` with just a signing key and a verification key) to register to sign different messages. It means that one signer can create more than one different `RegisteredSigner`s. Each registered signer is registered for a specific message.
Another point is that, we should also make sure that a signer generates only one signature. This could, of course, be checked by adding a boolean field. However, @rrtoledo and I are not sure whether it is the best way of doing this. WDYT @tolikzinovyev ?

# Centralized Telescope with BLS Signatures

## Workflow: ALBA Threshold Signature Example
1. **Define Telescope Parameters**:
  - Set the number of elements (`nb_elements`) to 1,000.
  - Specify `soundness_param` and `completeness_param` as 128.0 each.
  - Calculate the prover set size (`set_size`) as 80% of `nb_elements` and the lower bound as 20%.
  - Initialize the Telescope with these parameters.
2. **Initialize Signers**:
  - Create a list of candidate signers (`Signer`s) with randomly generated keys.

> 3. **Start Registration**:

Reviewer 2: @curiecrypt :  It may be even a good idea to overcommunicate with a simple example the registration - e.g., a total of 3000 SPOs but only, say,1000 of them register and the Mithril lottery is done out of these 1000. WDYT?

  - The checksum is not initialized since the registration is not closed.
- An initialized signer can be registered with `register` function.
  - If the registration is not already closed and the signer is not already registered, the registration can be done.
  - The verification key is added to the registration table with the next index.
  - The `index` field of the signer is updated with the registration index.
- After the registration is closed, a registered signer is updated with the `get_closed_registration`.
  - If the registration is closed and the key of the signer exists in the registered keys, `checksum` field of the signer is updated.

### Registration
- Registration includes registered keys as a `BTreeMap` and the checksum of all registered keys.
- New registration is initialized by `new` function with an empty `BTreeMap`. Checksum is not initialized in this phase.
- Registration process is closed with `close` function if the registration is not already closed. It is done by hashing all verification keys registered into the `checksum`.

### Signature
- A single signature is represented with `IndividualSignature`. 

> - It contains the bls signature and the index of the signer of signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It contains the BLS signature and the index of the signer of signature.
```

    - Aggregate collected verification keys by calling `AggregatePublicKey::aggregate`.
    - Convert aggregated signature to a signature and aggregated public key to a public key.
    - Verify them using `verify` function of bls signatures against the commitment.

### ALBA Threshold Signature
- It includes the alba proof, indices of the elements exist in the alba proof, and the commitment.
- The `prove` function:
  - Checks whether the registration is closed,
  - Creates the commitment,
  - Collects the valid signatures with `collect_valid_signatures`,
  - If the length of valid signatures is less than the set size provided, abort the process,
  - Creates the prover set by collecting only the signatures from the hash map of valid signatures,
  - Creates the alba proof,
  - Collects the registration indices of the elements that are in the alba proof by using valid signatures hashmap.
  - Returns the alba proof, indices, and the commitment.
- The `verify` function:
  - Checks whether the registration is closed,
  - Creates the commitment and compares it with the provided commitment,

>   - Verifies the signatures that creates the alba proof by calling `validate_signatures` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Verifies the signatures that are included in the alba proof by calling `validate_signatures` function.
```
